Hi and welcome to part two of our video on integer constructors and numerical bases.
So without further ado let's jump into the code and see how that works.
So integers have two constructors integers are classes right.
If we say type of 10 then we get an integer right.
And in the class we can actually look at the internal documentation for integers by doing this by doing
help.
And then just typing in the type that we're interested in the class.
And as you can see we have two constructors we have indexical zero.
So by default it will default to 0.
So if we do something like a equals int with no value then when we look at it it will be equal to zero.
Or we can pass in other numbers as well.
So for example we can say end of ten point five and that will give us 10 right even end of ten point
nine 9 9 9 9.
That will still be 10.
Remember we're truncating.
Now we can pass in other values that are not flawed or not integers.
We can pass any numerical type.
We can do end of true for example which is one end of the false which is zero.
We can also use other numerical types for example fractions.
Now we haven't covered fractions yet but I'll just show you very quickly how to do that.
And we'll look at the details of it in an upcoming video.
So let's import
fractions so we can import the fractions mondial.
And we're going to say equals fractions d'arte fraction and maybe we'll do a fraction 22 over 7.
OK.
So if we look at 8 it's the fraction 22 over 7.
But it obviously has a decimal representation and we can see what its decimal representation would be
with a decimal point.
We can convert it to a float and we can float a.
And this is what it is three point 1 4 2 8 5 7.
Now we can of course convert it to an integer.
And again we will get the truncated version of that number here.
So the next constructor we want to look at is the constructor that has the two parameters were passed
in a string.
So remember we can do something like 1 2 3 1 2 3 4 5.
We don't specify a base so the default base will be 10.
So we get 1 2 3 4 5 by thumbprints of integers and base 10 but we don't have to stick to base 10.
We could let's say Look at 1 0 1 and base 2 and we get 5 right 1 0 1 base 2 5 and base 10.
Now we can use other bases as well.
We can say maybe f f in base 16.
Well f f in base 16 is 255 and base 10.
And again the uppercase lowercase of these letters don't matter.
They both work the same way with lowercase f f we get 255 as well.
Now obviously Python is using 0 for nine and a through Z.
So we can code things using up to base 36 but we have to be careful if we use digits that are beyond
the base.
So what I mean by that.
Let's take a look at B in base 11.
Well first let's look at a base 11.
What is a base 11.
It's 10 and base 10.
But what would it be if we put the well B doesn't exist in base 11 right.
Base 11 is going to have 0 through 9 and 8.
That's it.
If we do that we'll get a value error.
As we mentioned in the slide we get this value error.
Invalid literal.
So the next thing we want to look at all the different base representations.
Now we do have built in methods.
Remember the been up and hex that we can use.
So for example we can save then 10.
Now 10 is the decimal number and the binary equivalent of 10 is 1 0 1 0 1 0 5 which was the example
we use just now we get the binary number 1 0 1.
Note the prefix zero.
We can also look at octal.
We can look at the octal representation for the base 10 number 10 and that's octal 1 2 and same thing
we have hex.
Let's say we take 255.
Then it tells us it's 0 x f f.
Now these prefixes are there to tell us that this number here.
Well first of all it's a number but this number here is in binary.
This number here is an octal this number there is an X so we can also use that same notation for literals.
So instead of saying they equals and you know 1 0 1 base to we can also say the equals and we don't
use quotes here.
So no strings 0 3 1 0 1.
And if we look at a.
It's 5.
And B is 5 as well.
Come so we can use these literals by you know in binary octal and hex by using these prefixes 0 be binary
0 0 for octal and 0 x 4 hexadecimal.
OK so now let's take a look at our customer base conversion.
So the first method we're going to implement is that one that creates those digits.
OK.
So we're going to call this def from base and we'll pass in from base 10 right.
We're going to convert from base 10 to some other base and we'll use end for our number and B for the
base that we want to change our representation to.
Now we're not going to handle bases that are less than 2.
So these are less than 2.
We're going to raise a value error and we might pass the message base b must be greater than or equal
to 2.
So we'll do that.
Now if n is less than zero we're not going to handle negative numbers here.
We will handle negative numbers but later.
So if end is less than zero we're going to raise a value error.
Number must be greater than or equal to zero.
OK so we're not going allow those two things.
Next we know that if our number is zero we can just return.
So if and is equal to zero returns.
Now remember we're going to be returning a list of digits.
So in this case we have to create a list that contains 0 not just 0 itself.
Now we're going to create our empty list which is all digits and we're going to say Wow.
And so now we're just implementing that algorithm we saw.
So while and is greater than zero.
Now we could say M equals an MA to be an N equals and div B.
Not really important for us to take the model falls right because we have to take the model of an.
And then we have to do and div B and then the next time around this end will actually be end of B and
so will be doing and B must be OK.
But it's important that we take the models first.
Otherwise we're going to be taking the model of that div right away.
So that's not what we want to do.
So we can do it this way.
And then we would do.
Digits dot insert zero comma.
We want to insert that modulo inside the digits as the first element because we're working our way from
right to left.
So this is one way of doing it.
An alternative way might be to do and comma and equals and not be an div B that would work as well.
OK so we're basically using this type of notation to do that.
But there is actually a function in Python called div mob and the did not function returns a table that
contains the div and the MOD.
So that's exactly what we're going to do now.
The div we are storing in n the mud with storing an M and Dave Marsh returns the demat in that order.
OK.
And comma B right.
Because we're doing an div B and an MoD B.
So this is an equivalent way of doing it as well.
So that's the diff nod function.
Quite useful it does both operations at once and returns the results as a table that we can then assign
to whatever we want.
So that's it.
Now all we have to do is return digits
and if yes if B if the base is less than that.
OK so that's a function that's going to generate all digits so let's test that out.
Let's look at from base 10.
Let's look at the value 10 the decimal base 10 value 10 in base 2.
Where do we get we get 1 0 1 0.
That's what we expected from base 10.
Let's say we do 255 in base 16.
Where do we get.
If I can type we get 15 comr 15 which is if we using these encodings right with F meaning 15 this would
be f f.
So this is not been coding yet.
This is just the algorithm to generate the digits in that different base.
But we're looking at.
So the next step then we have to do is to do the encoding.
So let's write it in code.
Now what are we going to pass to the encode function.
Well we would need to pass the digits right.
That list of digits and then the other thing we need to pass it is the mapping right.
That encoding map.
So we'll pass it.
We're not going to hardcoded inside the method.
We'll pass that as a parameter and we will encode then using that map.
So the one thing I want to do is a little bit of error checking.
So if the max of the digits is greater than or equal to length of the digit mouth.
Right so if the highest number that we have in digits is greater than or equal to the number of characters
we have in that string in that mapping then that's not going to work.
Right.
Because remember that mapping is an ordinal mapping.
So we're going to map the first character of the string is going to represent 0.
The second character in the string is going to represent 1 and so on.
So we need to make sure that we have that.
Otherwise we're going to run into problems.
So that's the case we'll raise an error right here.
We'll say this is a value error and we'll say digits map is not long enough to encode the digits or
something like that.
So I mean that makes sense to our users.
K then we need to create our encoding.
So remember we can do it this way and coding equals empty string.
And then we can say for D in digits encoding flossed equals.
We look at the digit map of the right and then we'll just return the encoding.
So now if we want to encode remember now we can try that.
And now we need to passen.
So let's pass in this result we had here 15 comma 15.
And the math that we want to use is going to be 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and that a b c d f k so that's the
mapping that we want to use to encode.
So we run that we get f f that looks small like our regular hex numbers.
Now I remember what I said about this always we can actually change into a much simpler expression.
So I'll just comment the salt
and we can use list comprehensions instead.
So we can say encoding equals and we need to do a join to get into a single string and then we're going
to say our digit map d for d n digits.
So we can do that and then return the encoding.
Or if we want even simpler we just return that k.
So this is probably a better way of coding this.
And then when we run the code we get the same thing right supposed to generate the same thing.
OK so now we have something that you know takes all number in base 10 and gives us its base b representation
and then we have a way to encode it in different ways.
So now we can actually combine those two if we want to in a different function.
So let's do that and let's call it def rebase from base 10 and we'll do the numbers.
And the base.
And in this case we're going to hand-code the R mapping string inside this method.
So we're going to do something very similar to Python.
So the digit map and there's more than one way of generating the string.
But I'm just going to do it by hand 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and then I'm going to use uppercase letters
a b c d f g a b c d f g h i j k l m and
there we go.
And that should be enough.
So that's going to be our map right.
Our encoding map.
Now if the base is less than 2 k we don't handle Bass's less than 2.
But in this case we also can handle a base that's going to be higher than 36 right.
We've got 36 characters in the string.
And so we can handle base greater than 36 so we have to make that test.
And if that's the case we're going to raise a value error and we're going to say Invalid base to less
than or equal to base less than or equal to 36 something like that just to indicate what the problem
is.
OK so base must be in that range.
OK.
We're also going to handle negative numbers here another way we're going to handle negative numbers
is we're going to look at the sign of the number see if it's negative.
We're going to then keep that sign we're going to make the number positive do our regular you know base
change and our encoding and then we'll add the minus sign right at the end before we return the string.
So we'll add the minus sign as a string as a string character essentially before we return it.
So let's do that and we're going to use the term relief which if you don't know that's OK we'll cover
it in an upcoming video.
We'll say sign equals minus one.
If the number is less than zero else one.
So this is equivalent to saying if number is less than zero sine equals minus one else sine equals one.
Write this code here is equivalent to this code right here.
So I'm going to keep the first one more more concise and still very expressive.
And the next thing we want to do is want to change the sign number to a positive right.
We want to make sure that it's a positive number.
Different ways we can do that.
We could you know use the absolute value from the math library we could again use an IF statement.
What I'm going to do is just multiply the number by the sign if the number was positive.
We're going to multiply by 1.
It won't change if the number was negative.
We're going to multiply by negative 1 which means that the magnitude of the number won't change but
the sign will change to a positive number.
So we're just going to say a number of times equals sign.
OK so now we know we have a positive numbers next.
Now we need to get the digits.
So we're going to say digits equals.
We called it from base 10.
We're going to give it the number that we're interested in and the vase.
OK that's it.
And then our encoding is going to be encoded the digits using the digit map that we created here inside
our function.
OK we're almost done.
We still have to put in the sign right.
So now we're going to use a regular if statement if sine equals minus 1 then the encoding is going to
be equal to the minus signs concatenated with encoding.
So if there was a negative side we'll add a back here and now we just return and coding.
And that's it.
We're done that function we now have a method that will take a number and give us its representation
in a different base.
The number is in base 10 hence why call that rebase from base 10.
So we can try that out.
Let's say a equals rebase from 10.
Let's take 10 and put it in base 2 and then we'll print me and then just to check we'll print and we'll
take that string representation that we have that easy.
But now we'll use the constructor of the int class that also specifies the base K like this.
And let's make sure that we get the same things.
So there we go.
When we rebase from 10 we had 1 0 1 0.
And when we took that string and put it into the constructor that uses a string with a base we got 10
back which was our original number.
So if we were to do you know three hundred and fourteen here then we would get this right.
This would be the binary representation of 314 base 10.
And if we put that back into the constructor we get it back.
So it looks like it's working.
Now we can try other ones we could try.
E equals rebase from 10.
Maybe we'll try.
I don't know 3000 451 in base 16 and then we'll print int he and we'll say the base was 16 K
and maybe we should print it as well while we're at it.
OK so this is the representation of three thousand four hundred fifty one in base 16.
It is DS 7 B and if we pump it back into the constructor and we get the same value back.
So it looks like our code is working obviously in order to really be sure we would have to write more
exhaustive unit tests.
Now let's try.
Lastly a negative number that makes all the negative numbers are getting carried through.
I'm just going to change it up here and make it a minus 3:14.
And indeed we get that we get minus our binary numbers and then we get negative that decimal back right.
So that seems to work.
And if we do that with our base 16 we get negative 7 B and then we get negative 3 4 5 1 back.
So looks like it's working.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.